All right, there's one more scenario that I want to point out regarding static methods and static fields
or variables.
And that is something called a static initialize.
So now that you've learned about static fields and you know about static methods, we can put these
two things together for one other technique that you actually don't see all that often.
So I don't want to spend a lot of time talking about it, but I do want you to be familiar with it.
What if you had a static field on a class and you wanted to initialize it with some fairly complex data?
And to do so, you might need a block of code that's more involved than just the regular single line
initialization that we've seen before.
So if we turn back here to the person class, what I mean is here we're creating a static member called
PI, and we're just initializing it right here in the declaration.
So we're declaring it here that it's public static and double and its name is PI.
And then we're initializing it to the value of three point one four.
So this is very straightforward, right?
But what if we wanted to initialize a static variable with data more complicated than what we could
specify in line in the declaration in the initialize are here?
Well, for that kind of scenario, we could consider using what's called a static initialize.
Or so here's an example of what I mean.
Let's say that we have a static member variable that is an array of integers.
OK, so it would look like this called nums.
OK.
And we want to initialize this array with a lot of data, and maybe that data is data that we read from
a file or or get from the internet or some some complicated way, OK, some some way of initializing
this, which is more involved than what we could just do right here on the same line.
OK.
So for a situation like that, one thing that you may occasionally see in code, though it's actually
pretty rare, is what's called a static initialize and what it is, it's basically a method with no
name.
OK?
It's almost like an anonymous method, if you will, and to create one, all you do is you type the
keyword static and then you use an opening curly brace as if you were making the body of a method.
And now, in between these two curly braces, you can type code that relates to any static fields in
the class.
OK.
So I could set this NUM's variable to something very straightforward.
Like I could say, NUM's equals new integer array with, I don't know, five elements.
I can do that and then I can proceed to set each element.
Element zero will equal a three.
And then I could come in here and set other things right as as I want.
So you can see already I'm doing things that would be a little harder to do inline on this same line
where I'm declaring, right.
So it's a little bit easier for me to do them in something like a method or a static initialize or OK.
And so what'll happen is that when Java sees this class and analyzes it when you're running your program,
it would run this block of code as if it were a method.
But it would do so at basically as soon as it becomes aware that you have declared this class OK, as
it would do for these static members as well.
OK.
So alternatively, you could just create a static method like something like public static.
Let's say it's going to return an array of integers in that number.
OK?
You can call it whatever you want.
And so here, maybe what we would do is we'd just copy all of that, for example.
Paste this here.
But.
We might go ahead and declare this locally like so and then in the end, return numbers like that.
Then here we can now say equals in it numbs.
OK, so here we're explicitly calling this static method, which returns an array of integers.
And so it allows us to create and initialize this array of integers.
Then we return the array of integers and then we just store a reference to them inside of this static
field.
OK.
So these two approaches are pretty much equivalent to each other.
I would say that this approach is probably better.
It's a little more obvious what's going on here.
There are a lot of programmers who probably don't even realize you can create a static initialize.
And so for that reason, I'd probably go with this approach.
It's just more straightforward.
Anyone reading this code who knows basic Java would probably understand, OK, we're calling this method.
This method is returning an array of integers, whereas if they saw this one, it's slightly less obvious
what's going on.
But nevertheless, I wanted you to be aware of these approaches, and that's pretty much all I wanted
to show you with static initializes.
See in the next one.